In this video, we're going
to start looking at how
Named Ranges can be used to
automate functionality
in Workbooks.
This is actually
the most important
reason for using them.
The example we're going
to look at is how we
can automate data validation,
but that's just one
of many examples.
Now just before we get started,
we're going to create one last
Named Range, so good practice.
We want to name the
locations Named Range,
and the quickest
way to do this is
using our Create from Selection.
So I'm going to select
from A7 down to A9,
and keyboard shortcut,
you might remember,
is "Control+ Shift+ F3".
Top row is what I want,
so I'm just going
to press "Enter."
If I double check my name box,
there is my locations and
here's my two cities.
Let's come back into
our invoice report.
Zara has added
conditional formatting
so that if I come into
K2 and type Sydney,
it'll automatically highlight
all the Sydney rows
and of course,
the same happens for Melbourne.
Now we're going to look
at conditional formatting
a lot more in the next course,
but what we're going to
focus on Zara's problem,
which is she doesn't want
to have to type it in.
She would like a drop
down list where she
can select Sydney or Melbourne.
Now to do this, we use something
called Data Validation.
Just going to delete
that for a moment.
With K2 selected,
we're going to come to
our Data tab and we're going
to click "Data Validation."
Data Validation allows us to
control what users input into
a cell so we can specify that
a number must be within a
certain range, for example.
It also allows us to
create drop down lists,
and to do this we change
the "Any Value" to "List".
In the Source box, we need to
specify what we see in that list.
We could just type values,
but then we would have to
come and manually change it
every time there was a change
and that we don't want,
so we're going to use
a Named Range instead.
You can type the name of
the range or even better,
you can come to
your Formulas tab,
click "Use in Formula"
and choose Locations.
A keyboard shortcut
for this is F3.
Now we're going to click "Okay."
A drop down has appeared
and if I click on that drop-down,
I can choose Sydney or Melbourne.
So that's half of it done,
we've created our data validation
and we've linked it
to a Named Range,
but we would like that named
range to automatically grow.
So back in my Recon Analysis,
if I add another region,
I want it to appear
in my drop down list.
So I have to have
a way of somehow
making my Named
Ranges more dynamic.
We can do this using
a calculation.
The calculation has two parts.
The first part is to work
out how many values
we actually have.
That's quite straightforward,
I'll demonstrate in
this cell over here.
So if I type "=COU",
I want to count,
but I'm not counting numbers,
so I have to actually
use COUNTA function,
which is count alphanumerics.
So I'm going to double
click "COUNTA."
Then assuming I'll never
have more than 10 regions,
I'm going to select A8 down to
A18 and press "Enter" and
that's telling me that too.
If I added another region,
you can see it picks up three.
I'll undo that for now.
So that's the first part,
but the Named Range actually
means the actual values.
To do that, we're
going to need to use
a slightly trickier function
called the OFFSET function.
What the OFFSET does is,
given a starting point,
it will return a block of data,
a certain number
of rows or columns
away from that starting point.
Let's go build the whole
thing in the Name Manager.
So back into my Name Manager,
I'm going to come to Locations
and I'm going to click "Edit."
I'm going to replace
this hard coded
Named Range with something
that is calculated.
I'm going to remove
all of that and I'm
going to use the OFFSET
function to do this.
So I'm going to type offset
and open my brackets.
Now it would has to
have a starting point,
and that is our first location,
so I'm going to click on
A8 and then type a comma.
Then it wants to know
how many rows away
from that starting
point we want to begin.
That is 0 because we're
starting there, then a comma.
Next, it wants to
know how many columns
away we want to start and again,
that is 0, and then
another comma.
Here is where we specify
how many rows we want to
include in our range.
We do this with our
COUNTA, so again,
counta and select A8 down to A18.
Close our brackets
for our COUNTA,
close our brackets
for our OFFSET.
Now you can press
"Okay" and "Close."
Let's go check that our named
range is still working.
So we're going to
click the drop-down
and you can see it's still
Sydney and Melbourne.
But if I now come back into
my Recon Analysis and add Perth,
when I check my
drop-down this time,
Perth has been added.
So what we've seen is how
data validation has automatically
updated by using something
called a dynamic Named Range.
For a long time, this was the
only way we could do this.
But that calculation is
a little bit tricky,
so I have some
great news for you.
Next week we're going to look
at a feature called tables,
which adds all this
automation for us without
actually having to create
that scary OFFSET function.
For this week though,
you've done really well.
Don't forget to check out
our practice challenge,
which will help you
consolidate all your skills.